.TH "BST SHELL" "1" "2025-05-09" "2.5" "bst shell Manual"
.SH NAME
bst\-shell \- Shell into an element's sandbox environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bst shell
[OPTIONS] [TARGET] [COMMAND]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Run a command in the target element's sandbox environment
.PP
    When this command is executed from a workspace directory, the default
    is to shell into the workspace element.
.PP
    This will stage a temporary sysroot for running the target
    element, assuming it has already been built and all required
    artifacts are in the local cache.
.PP
    Use '--' to separate a command from the options to bst,
    otherwise bst may respond to them instead. e.g.
.PP
    
        bst shell example.bst -- df -h
.PP
    Use the --build option to create a temporary sysroot for
    building the element instead.
.PP
    If no COMMAND is specified, the default is to attempt
    to run an interactive shell.
    
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-b,\fP \-\-build
Stage dependencies and sources to build
.TP
\fB\-\-mount\fP HOSTPATH PATH
Mount a file or directory into the sandbox
.TP
\fB\-\-isolate\fP
Create an isolated build sandbox
.TP
\fB\-t,\fP \-\-use\-buildtree
Stage a buildtree. Will fail if a buildtree is not available. pull-buildtrees configuration is needed if the buildtree is not available locally.
.TP
\fB\-\-artifact\-remote\fP REMOTE
A remote for uploading and downloading artifacts
.TP
\fB\-\-source\-remote\fP REMOTE
A remote for uploading and downloading cached sources
.TP
\fB\-\-ignore\-project\-artifact\-remotes\fP
Ignore remote artifact cache servers recommended by projects
.TP
\fB\-\-ignore\-project\-source\-remotes\fP
Ignore remote source cache servers recommended by projects
